# ptools
The package ptools written in Fortran provides both tools and libraries for showing the OpenMP
and MPI  configuration in the current environment. This particular useful when running an OpenMP,
MPI or hybrid OpenMP and MPI application with a long runtime. It allows you to quickly determine
the current OpenMP and/or MPI configuration before running the actual code.

## Building and installation
For building ptools both OpenMP and MPI are required. Furthermore, the user documentation
can be generated by making use of Doxygen. The build itself is done by making use of
CMake. The instructions for building and installing ptools can be found be below.

The first step of the building is by configuring it using CMake. This is done using the following
command
```
  $ FC=<fortran_compiler> cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DBUILD_DOC=ON -B <bld_dir> -S <src_dir>
```
Here, `<fortran_compiler>`, `<bld_dir>` and `<src_dir>` are the Fortran compiler, build directory and
the source directory, respectively. The `-DBUILD_DOC=ON` flag means that the user documentation
will be generated using Doxygen.

The next step is actually building the code. This is also done using CMake via the command
```
  $ cmake --build <bld_dir> --config Release
```
On a Linux system it is also possible to make use of `make`.

Before the installation, one can run the tests by making use for CTest via the command
```
  $ ctest --test <bld_dir>
```

The final step is the installation of ptools. This is also done using CMake using the
command
```
  $ cmake --install <bld_dir> --prefix <install_dir>
```
Here, `<install_dir>` is the installation prefix directory.
